# 14. Longest Common Prefix

[LeetCode Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-common-prefix/)

Write a function to find the longest common prefix string amongst an array of strings. <br/>
If there is no common prefix, return an empty string "". <br/>

## Example 1:

Input: strs = ["flower","flow","flight"] <br/>
Output: "fl"

## Example 2:

Input: strs = ["dog","racecar","car"] <br/>
Output: "" <br/>

Explanation: There is no common prefix among the input strings.


## Constraints:

1 <= strs.length <= 200 <br/>
0 <= strs[i].length <= 200 <br/>
strs[i] consists of only lowercase English letters. <br/>


## Problem solving approach:
- Keyword is common prefix. (We only need to store the prefix letters from previous strings and compare it to the next string + we can limit the max character number of the length of the prefix.)
- Compare one of the strings with the rest of the strings in the list.
- Loop through the characters of the string and compare them with the characters of the other strings.
- If the characters are the same, add them to the longest common prefix string.
- If the characters are not the same, return the longest common prefix string.
- If the list is empty, return an empty string.

## Optimizations:
- Solution 1:
  - Check if the list is empty and return an empty string.
  - Check which string is the shortest and use the length of that string as the maximum length of the longest common prefix.

## Solution 1:
```Python
class Solution:
    def longestCommonPrefix(self, strs: List[str]) -> str:
        if not strs:
            return ""
        min_prefix = min(len(string) for string in strs)
        prefix = strs[0]
        for string in strs[1:]:
            i = 0
            while i < min_prefix and i < len(prefix) and string[i] == prefix[i]:
                i += 1
            prefix = string[:i]
        return prefix
```

## Solution 2:

```Python

```

## Results:
- Solution 1:
  - Runtime: 38 ms, faster than 51.44% of Python3 online submissions. <br/>
  - Memory Usage: 16.3 MB, less than 17.8% of Python3 online submissions. <br/>


## Read Possibility:
- [NeetCode](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0sWShKIJoo4) :
  - Time complexity: O(n) (n is total number of characters in the list of strings)
  - ``` Python
    class Solution:
        def longestCommonPrefix(self, strs: List[str]) -> str:
            res = ""
            for i in range(len(strs[0])):
                for s in strs:
                    if i == len(s) or s[i] != strs[0][i]:
                        return res
                res += strs[0][i]
            return res
    ```
  - It is slower, becaus it doesn't handle immediately the case when the list is empty (or have only one element).
  - It doesn't optimize the length of the prefix.
